---
title: 'Homework 7'
date: 2023-07-06T13:09:45Z
draft: false
meta_img: "images/image.png"
tags:
  - "stat6315"
description: "Description for the page"
---

### Todos for Today

- STAT 6315
  - complete homework 7
  - Revisit Homework 3
  - Revisit Homework 4
- Jackwood Blast
  - meet Ben and Brian TBD
  - try out a local blast search to see memory, cpu time limitation
- gg-catalog
  - Implications of the networks generated
  - How does KEGG work?
  - Show Aggrey the charts and ask him what he thinks
  - Find a Shotgun Analysis involved with chickens and some kind of phenotypic data.
  - Some kind of machine learning classifier to determine major players in a phenotypic outcome.
  
### STAT 6315

#### Homework 7

Submitted homework 7 

#### Module 8 

8.1a snapdragon colors part 1

one variable is color of progeny of pink flowered snapdragons

red pink white are categories of variable

at least one proportion differs from the hypothesized value

(more than one will change because everything has to add up to 1, technically at least 2)

8.1b snapdragon colors part 2

red   pink  white
58.5  117   58.5

Expected counts are like averages, they are not rounded. 
this is what we expect to happen on the average, if the experiement was repeated many times. 

graph will be a barplot

if they are close then the data are consistent and we should fail to reject, otherwise reject.

conditions:

1 independence: random sampling
2 chi-square: every expected cell count >= 5, the smallest expected count is 58.5 since all expected counts are at least 5 the sampling distribution of the test statistic has an approximate chi-square distribution. 

8.1c snapdragon colors part 3

k-1 3-1 = 2 degrees of freedom

always area to the right

there is not enough evidence to conclude the distribution of color of pink flower snapdragon progeny is not 1:2:1. 

8.1d births

H0: p1 = p2 = p3 = p4 ... = p7
Ha: at least one proportion differs

Days are categories of the variable of weekday

is there evidence to contradict the days are evenly distribuited?

independence is met because 3 hospitals were randomly selected. 
chi square is met because all expected counts are greater than 5 therefore the sampling distribution of the test statistic has an approximate chi-square distribution

932*1/7 = 133.4 >= 5

df = 6
chi-sq = 10.8069
p-value = 0.0945

with a pvalue of 0.0945 fail to reject H0 there is not enough evidence to conclude births are not evenly distributed across days of the week. 

8.1e production

H0: p1 = .38, p2= .32, p3= .26, p4 = .04
Ha: at least one proportion differes from .38, .32, .26, .04

Independence: the items are randomly selected so independence is met
Chi-Square: 

*only need to do the smallest*

500\*(.38) = 190 500\*(.32)= 160 500\*(.26)= 130 500\*(.04) = 20

since each expected value is greater than 5 (190,160,130,20) the sampling distribution of the test statistic is approximatly chi-square distributed. 

df = 3
chi-sq = 20.0726
p-value = 0.0002

with a p-value of 0.0002 we reject H0 and there is enough evidence to conclude the distribution of grade of items produced by the new machine is different from the old machine. 

8.2a health habits part 1

we obsereved 69 people with low FC and low PA but if the two variables are independent we can expect to see 51.902 people in this category on the average 

8.2b health habits part 2

there is enough evidence to conclude the two variables are dependent, related, associated. 

8.2c health habits part 3

standardized residuals behave like z-scores. with mean 0 and stdev 1

by the empircal rule 95% will be between -2 and +2 anything out past that would be unusual.

low FC low PA

obs = 69
exp = 51.902

std res: (69-51.092)/sqrt(51.902) = 2.373 which is outside the range of -2 to 2 

since 2.373 is bigger than +2, 69 is unusually high. 

sum of the standardized residuals squared 

test statistic = ch-square

(standardized residual)^2 = cell contribution to the test statistic. 

This cell contributes (2.373)^2= 5.631 to the statistsic

SR<-2 or SR>2

(SR)^2 > 4 

8.2d vaccination part 1

H0: there is no association between health outcome and vaccination status
Ha: there is an association between health outcome and vaccination status

there is random assignment to vaccination and non vaccination

the lowest expected frequency is 9 which is greater than 5 therefore the sampling distribution of the test statistic is approximatly chi-square distributed

df= 2
chi-square= 13.649
pvalue= 0.0011

reject H0 and there is sufficient evidence to conclude that health outcome and vaccination status are associated .


8.2e vaccination part 2

sick with pneumonia vaccinated and not vaccinated are unusually low

