---
title: 'Module 10'
date: 2023-07-20T13:06:45Z
draft: false
meta_img: "images/image.png"
tags:
  - "stat6315"
  - "microbiome-review"
description: "Description for the page"
---

### Todos for Today

- Make up TAP forms for Dr. Aggrey to sign
- Read papers about microbiome analysis
- STAT 6315
  - Watch all module 10 videos:
    - multiple regression 
- Jackwood Blast
  - meet Ben and Brian TBD
  - try out a local blast search to see memory, cpu time limitation
- gg-catalog
  - Implications of the networks generated
  - How does KEGG work?
  - Show Aggrey the charts and ask him what he thinks
  - Find a Shotgun Analysis involved with chickens and some kind of phenotypic data.
  - Some kind of machine learning classifier to determine major players in a phenotypic outcome.

### STAT 6315

10.2f supervisor performance part 2

Check conditions for:
  - Hypothesis test
  - Confidence interval
  
Do not Need to for:
  - Proportion of the variation explained (R^2)
  - Interpreting coefficients
  
Conditions:

  - Independence
  - Normality
  - Mean Zero Condition
  - Constant variance
  
H0: all betas are equal and equal to zero 
Ha: at least one beta is not equal to zero

F = 9.5336  P-value <0.001

There is enough evidence to conclude the model with all six predictor variables is useful for predicting overall job rating being done by the supervisor. 

H0: beta4 = 0
Ha: beta4 !=0

F= 1.10 p-value= 0.284

given the other 5 predictors are in the model there is not enough evidence to conclude raises based on performance is a useful predictor of overall rating of supervisor. 

failed to reject h0 so CI 95% will contain 0
(-0.219, 0.712)

with all other predictors fixed, for every one unit increase in raises based upon performance, we can be 95% confident the overall rating of job being done by supervisor decreases by as much as 0.219 or increases by as much as 0.712. 

10.3a coffee sales part 1

Negative association, but probably not linear

- normality
- mean zero 
  - Clearly there is a pattern in the residual plot which means that the mean zero condition is not satisfied. 
- constance of variance

Sales hat = intercept + coef \*(temp) + coef \* (temp^2)
            32.96       1.69            -0.02
            
R^2 = 0.9879

98.78% of the variation in sales has been explained by fitting the quadratic model with temperature as the predictor variable

10.3b coffee sales part 2

if temperature increases from 56 to 57 how much is sales affected?

sales hat if temp =56 = 58.18
sales hat if temp = 57 = 57.37

sales is predicted to have decreased by 0.81 cups on the average.

sales hat if temp =74 = 36.78
sales hat if temp = 75 = 35.17

F= 1307.48 p-value < 0.001

There is enough evidence to conclude the quadratic model with temperature as the predictor variable is useful for predicting coffee sales. 

10.3c flares

indicator variable 0/1

forumulation A = intercept beta 0

form b = beta0 + beta1

beta0 = beta0 + beta1

beta1 = 0

H0 beta1=0 Ha beta1 !=0

reject H0 there is enough evidence to conclude the mean burn time is different for these two formulations. 

pooled t-test agree with the regression, compare means and constant variance, compare two independent means. Could not use this with a paired t-test.

10.3d monofilament fibers part 1

In general if there are k categories, then you would need k-1 indicator variables. 

Beta0 + beta1(1) + beta2(0) beta0+beta1

Beta0 + beta1(0) + beta2(1) beta0+beta2

Beta0 + beta1(0) + beta2(0) beta0

yhat becomes ybar for each group

the predicted breaking strenghts correspond to the averages of each machine

reject H0 there is enough evidence the mean breaking strenght is different for at least two machines. 

10.3e monofilament fibers part 2


### Microbiome Papers

I was able to set up a paper vault to keep track of all the stuff I read now, so the workflow goes:

1. Find paper online, add to zotero through connector
2. Send paper to Ipad 
3. Read paper and markup with notes
4. Send paper back to zotero with notes digested
5. Pull paper into obsidian
  - ctrl + p
  - QuickAdd: Run QuickAdd
  - Add Paper
  - Search Paper
6. Add paper findings to Excel doc
7. OPT make page for researchers 

Psych, Just annotate the papers in zotero and then ingest into Obsidian.

for Tomorrow fully inget Knight et al 2018
