---
title: 'Module 7'
date: 2023-07-05T13:31:11Z
draft: false
meta_img: "images/image.png"
tags:
  - "stat6315"
description: "Description for the page"
---

### Todos for Today

- STAT 6315
  - lectures for homework 7
  - complete homework 7
  - Revisit Homework 3
  - Revisit Homework 4
- Jackwood Blast
  - meet Ben and Brian TBD
  - try out a local blast search to see memory, cpu time limitation
- gg-catalog
  - Implications of the networks generated
  - How does KEGG work?
  - Show Aggrey the charts and ask him what he thinks
  - Find a Shotgun Analysis involved with chickens and some kind of phenotypic data.
  - Some kind of machine learning classifier to determine major players in a phenotypic outcome.
  
### STAT 6315

#### Module 7 Lectures

7.1a arthritis drug part 1

Independence chosen random samples or treatements were assigned at random

tricky with match pairs, but in this case participants were only taking one drug. Random assignment responses are independent

n1(p1hat) = 236(74/23)= 74 >= 5 
n1(1-p1hat) 162
n2(p2hat) = 43
n2(1-p2hat) = 151

since all values are at least 5 the sampling distribution of p1hat-p2hat is approximatly normal. 

7.1b arthritis drug part 2

z = (p1hat - p2hat) - 0 / SE 

[Group1]  [Group2]


p2-p1 < 0 

-1 (p1-p2 > 0) == p2-p1 < 0 

you will get a negative point estimate and test statistic. 

there is a 0.0164 chance of obtaining a sample in which p1hat -p2hat is 0.092 or higher assuming the probabibility of pain relief is the same for the two drugs. 

reject h0 there is enough evidence the probability of pain relief is higher for the new drug compatred to the existing drug. 

CI for p1-p2 ( ____ , ____ )

Will CI contain 0 or be values larger than 0? 

Because we reject H0 we will have positive values

we can be 95% confident the probability of pain relief is anywhere from 0.0087 to 0.1751 higher for the new drug compared to the existing drug. 

7.1c reading scores part 1

Explanitory: teaching method categorical 

Response: reading score quantitative

mu1 mean reading score of one-on-one method and mu2 mean reading score for small group method

mu1 = mu2 vs mu1 != mu2 

point estimate for mu1-mu2 = xbar1 - xbar2


14.4-7.5 = 6.9

independent, not matched pairs, 20 children were randomly assigned to the teaching methods

normally distributed, we don't have 30 samples per treatment so have to justify normality for populations, which then justifies normality for sampling distributions which then justifies normality for xbar1 - xbar2. 

both sw pvalues (0.7525, 0.6666) are greater than 0.1 indicating that each sample could be from normal populations, therefore each sampling distribution (xbar1, xbar2) would be approximately normal, therefore the sampling distribution of xbar1 - xbar2 is approximately normal. 

7.1c reading scores part 1


7.1d reading scores part 2

do a t-test, not equal to, greater than, less than 

reject h0 there is enough evidence to conclude the mean score is different 

we can be 95% confident the mean reading score is anywhere between 3.4023 to 10.3977 higher for the one on one method compared to the small group method. 

7.1e pooled t-test versus two-sample t-test

pooled t test assumes equal variences

two sample ttest does not assume equal variances

if the population variances were really equal, the pooled t-test will be slightly more powerful, than the 2 sample t test. power is the probability of rejecting a false h0

but if the two variances arent really equal then the p-value from the pooled t-test can be seriously in error. 

use the two sample t-test gain only a little vs losing a lot, comparing independent means. 
choose the unequal option for hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. 

7.1f folic acid and birth defects

explanitory variable: did the women take folic acid or not? categorical

response: whether or not there was a major birth defect categorical 

p1 probability of a birth defect for mothers who take folic acid
p2 probability of a birth defect for mothers who do not take folic acid

h0: p1 = p2  JMP  p2 = p1

ha: p1 < p2  JMP p2 > p1


                  birth defect yes no total
0.8 mg folic acid 35  2666  2701
no folic acid     47  2005  2052

independent groups, not matched pairs, the women only took one treatment not both
independence within groups the women were randomly assigned to the treatment groups

normality of p1hat - p2hat

Since 35, 47,2666 and 2005 are all at least 5 the sampling distribution of p1hat -p2hat is nearly normal. 

p-value of 0.0045 there is enough evidence to conclude the probability of major birth defect is lower for women that take 0.8 mg of folic acid

7.2a grip strength

a it was a match paired test since the measurements were linked through the same person 
b yes because they are randomly selected
c 

the differences would be approx 0 dom = non dom then dom-nondom =0

mud mean difference in grip strenght of all students

h0 mud = 0
ha mud != 0

d normally distributed,yes because n >= 30

e 
t=1.9544 pvalue= 0.0604

no, fail to reject h0 because pvalue is greater than 0.05

CI for mud = (-0.28,12.35)

positive means dominant hand was greater than non dominant

we can be 95% confident that the mean grip strength is as much as 12.35 kg highter for the dominant hand or as much as .28 kg higher for the non dominant hand 

7.2b apartments part 1

mu1 = mu2
mu1 != mu2

conditions:
independent groups, not matched pairs
independence within groups, each was randomly selected
normality of sampling distribution of xbar1-xbar2
both sw pvalues are greater than 0.1 indicates each sample could have come from respective normal population, therefore each sampling distribution would be nearly normal, therefore the sampling distribution of the difference xbar1-xbar2 would be approximatly normal 

7.2c apartments part 2

t = 0.426 pvalue 0.6833

not enough evidence to conclude there is a difference in the mean value for one and two bedroom apt

-426.43 612.43 

2 bedroom - 1 bedroom apts


we can be 95% confident the mean rent is anywhere from $612.43 higher for 2 bed room apartments than 1 bedroom apartments or as much as 426.43 higher for one bed room apartments than for 2 bedroom apartments.

7.2d aggression in twins part 1

independent groups? not independent groups, these are matched pairs
independent sets of twins, representative of population then they would have been randomly selected. 


normality of xbard looks linear so the sample of differences could have come from a normal population therefore the sampling distribution of xbard is approximately normal 


D = first - second

h0 mud = 0 
ha mud > 0 

7.2e aggression in twins part 2

when doing a difference, it becomes a hypothesis test (t-test) for one mean greate than or not equal to 0

fail to reject h0 not enough evidence to conclude the mean aggression score in twins is higher for the firstborn when compared to the second born

n = (z* times sd/MR)^2 

(1.96 times 7.259 /2)^2 = 50.61, at least 51 sets of twins need to be selected. 

use standard deviation of the differences

7.2f snap beans part 1

explanitory variable: storage method categorical variable

response variable: amount of ascorbic acid measured quantitative

not matched pairs, independent groups with randomly assigned treatments

mu1 mean ascorbic acid for the old method
mu2 mean ascorbic acid for the new  method 

h0: mu1 = mu2
ha: mu1 < mu2 

the 64 packages were randomly assigned to the storage method

since n1 and n2 are both equal to 32>=30 each sampling distribution will be approximatly normal if each sampling distribution is approx normal the sampling distribution of xbar1-xbar2 is also going to be approximately normal 

7.2g snap beans part 2
 
pvalue < 0.001

there is enough evidence to conclude the mean ascorbic acid is higher for the new method compared to old method 

point and interval estimates:

we want mu2 - mu1
(25.19,52.81) we can be 95% confident that the mean ascorbic acid is anywhere from 25.19 to 52.81 higher for the new storage method than the old method. 

Because we rejected h0 a type 1 error could have been committed. concluding there is enough evidence the mean ascorbic andi is higher for the new method but actially the mean ascorbic acid is the same for both methods.

#### Homework 7




