---
title: 'Homework 10'
date: 2023-07-21T13:19:11Z
draft: false
meta_img: "images/image.png"
tags:
  - "stat6315"
  - "microbiome-review"
  - "kegg ontology network"
  - "gg-catalog"
description: "Description for the page"
---

### Todos for Today

- Make up TAP forms for Dr. Aggrey to sign
- Read papers about microbiome analysis
- STAT 6315
  - Complete Homework 10
- fully ingest Knight et al 2018
- Jackwood Blast
  - meet Ben and Brian TBD
  - try out a local blast search to see memory, cpu time limitation
- gg-catalog
  - Implications of the networks generated
  - How does KEGG work?
  - Show Aggrey the charts and ask him what he thinks
  - Find a Shotgun Analysis involved with chickens and some kind of phenotypic data.
  - Some kind of machine learning classifier to determine major players in a phenotypic outcome.

### Stat 6315

Homework 10 

I completed and submitted the homework 10 assignment. 

### Reading Notes

Knight et. al 2018


### Dr. Aggrey

I met with Dr. Aggrey to show him the new cytoscape charts, He wanted to know what the red, white and red colors meant and I could not give him a clear enough answer. I need to look at the kegg default theme and understand why they are colored in vs the ones I colored in. 

I figured out that there were a couple ontologies that had 0 values and then there were ontologies that did not appear at all. The zero ones were labeled as white and then the unknown ones were labeled blue. I attempted to explain this as well as where the data originated from in a word doc and re-generated the ontology networks as pdf files so that they are easier to open. Dr. Aggrey wanted me to explain what I was looking for, my main objective was to compare ontologies tissue to tissue to see if there is a greater or lesser abundance of ontologies and if that would point to an interesting gene category to examine.