---
title: 'Module 10'
date: 2023-07-19T12:52:17Z
draft: false
meta_img: "images/image.png"
tags:
  - "stat6315"
  - "microbiome-review"
description: "Description for the page"
---


### Todos for Today

- Make up TAP forms for Dr. Aggrey to sign
- Read papers about microbiome analysis
- STAT 6315
  - Watch all module 10 videos:
    - multiple regression 
- Jackwood Blast
  - meet Ben and Brian TBD
  - try out a local blast search to see memory, cpu time limitation
- gg-catalog
  - Implications of the networks generated
  - How does KEGG work?
  - Show Aggrey the charts and ask him what he thinks
  - Find a Shotgun Analysis involved with chickens and some kind of phenotypic data.
  - Some kind of machine learning classifier to determine major players in a phenotypic outcome.
  

We found out our room numbers (0327) sharing with Ben Jackwood and Drew Callahan which will be nice I guess from the collaboration aspect and I liked having my own space so we'll see how that all goes I guess. 

### Module 10

10.1a infant mortality part 1

Simple, one x to predict one y. 

Y is linearly related to x.

MLR more than one predictor variable, linear combination of betas. 

Model infant mortality rate using the variables as predictors. 

Compare response to predictor variables. 

Yes, based on the scatter plots, there is not any major curvature 

With a correlation of 0.8021, low birth weight is most highly correlated with infant mortality. 

Child deaths and teen death rate (r=0.8116)
High school drop rate and teen births (r=0.7953)

10.1b infant mortality part 2

infant mortality hat = _ + _ \*(child death) + _ \*(hs droprate) ... _ \*(teen deaths)

b3=0.698 with all other predictor variables fixed, for every one unit increase in low birth weight the response infant mortality is predicted to increase by 0.698 on the average.

10.1c infant mortality part 3

- independence: the results should have been obtained by some sort of random sampling method.
- normality: The normal quantile plot of residuals has a linear pattern with little curvature, therefore the normality condition is plausible. 
- mean zero: there is not a pattern in the residual plot and it is symmetric about the zero-line, therefore the mean zero condition is reasonable
- constance variance: the vertical deviation in the residuals does not depend on yhat therefore the constant varience condition is plausible 

10.1d infant mortality part 4

H0: beta1 = beta2 = beta3 = beta4 = beta5 = 0
Ha: at least one beta is not equal to zero 

F= 27.9795 p-value < 0.0001 Reject H0 there is enough evidence to conclude the model which contains all 5 predictor variables is useful for predicting infant mortality. 

Given all other predictor variables in the model, there is enough evidence to conclude low birth weight is a useful predictor of infant mortality. 

t = 6.55 p-value < 0.001

10.1e infant mortality part 5

95% CI for B3

(0.483, 0.913) with all other predictor variables fixed, for every one unit increase in low birthweight we can be 95% confident the infant mortality increases by anywhere from 0.483 to 0.913 on the average. 

R^2 = 0.7607; 76.07% of the variation in infant mortality has been explained by fitting the model with all 5 predictor variables included.

10.1f wildlife part 1

independence: indepence is met because of random sampling of days 
normality: the normal quantile plot of residuals is fairly linear therefore the normality condition is plausible
mean zero: there is no pattern and the data is approximately symmetric across the zero line, therefore the mean zero condition seems plausible
constant variance: As you go across yhat the vertical deviation does not depend on yhat therefore the constant variance is plausable

F = 19.39 p-value <0.001

Reject H0, conclude that there is enough evidence to conclude that the model with all four predictor variables included is useful for predicting departure time of lesser snow geese.

R^2 = 0.7144 71.44% of the variation in departure time of lesser snow geese has been explained by fitting this model with all four predictor variables included. 

10.1g wildlife part 2

b1 = 0.758; with all other predictor variables fixed, for every one degree Celsius increase in temperature the departure time increases by 0.758 minutes on the average. 

(0.198, 1.319) with all other predictor variables fixed, for every one degree Celsius increase in temperature we can be 95% confident that the departure time increases by anywhere from 0.198 to 1.319 minutes on the average. 

Is temperature useful, yes because it does not contain 0 so it is useful given all other variables.


10.2a infant mortality part 1

as you add to the model r^2 will always increase, it is just how much it increases. 

adjusted R^2, the model with child deaths high school drop rate and low birth rate has the highest adjusted R^2 which penalizes adding more variables.

10.2b infant mortality part 2

remove based on largest p-value, fit the new model and see 

the ones that remain in the model are child deaths, hs drop rate and low birth rate. 

10.2c infant mortality part 3

10.2d wildlife part 1

Temperature, light intensity, cloud cover. 

R^2 full 0.699
R^2 backward 0.714

R^2 adj full  0.672 
R^2 adj backward 0.678

The R^2 are close for both models, the adjusted R^2 are close as well. 

They would leave about 2.73 minutes after the sunrise. 

10.2e supervisor performance part 1

R^2 = 0.7132 or 71.32% of the variation in overall job rating has been explained by the model with all 6 predictor variables included. 

X4 b4 = 0.247 with all other predictor variables fixed, for every one unit increase in raises based on performance the overall rating of job being done by the supervisor increases by 0.247 on the average. 






