---
title: Adding Samples to the HISeq Analysis, and other jams
author: Ben Lorentz
date: '2022-11-30'
slug: adding-samples-to-the-hiseq-analysis-and-other-jams
categories: []
tags:
  - one tag
  - another tag
meta_img: images/image.png
description: Description for the page
---

### Todos for Today:

- set up a hiseq-count loop like above and submit
- finish the supplemental tables 1-5 with my results (STALE)
- Run DESeq2 analysis on htseq-count table (STALE)
- Visualize Ampliseq (STALE)
  - examine slurm run 15474870
  
  
### Gene 8940 

#### HISeq Loop

I created a looped htseq script that will output sample-named.tsv files which can then be linked in R into a counts table. Then we can re-run the deseq2 analysis.

Slurm: 33088
Revision: 604317376f802ca1d39b9ab5eef9635fa661d07e

```bash

```

Still running at 5 pm..

```bash
33088     batch 7_htseq_ bjl34716  R    6:46:32      1 tcn19
```

#### Supplemental Table

I was able to update the table to link SRR and Sample ID results and re-create the supplemental tables that are constructed out of STAR data. This is in revision: 0a7b5e581fe98836a74d770a57bb581dd2dd8bd9. 


#### DESeq2


I didn't realize the term paper is due december 6th not like two weeks from now... So we have to prioritize getting some results so that we can present them in a report. First, finishing up my report tabs to include as supplementals. Then we need to finish the DESeq2 analysis to have those results. While/then I need to start writing up those methods/results in a way that makes sense. We have plenty of time but we must focus. As Such, here are project dimensions:

#### Report Generation
  
  Tasks:
    - Collect Citations (papers) of programs used
    - figure out the result files generated so far
    - find revisions from each result file
    - Write out a narrative for methods

You will be required to write a report on your project (5 pages maximum, 11 pt font minimum) that will
be due on Tues 6 Dec at 5 PM.

* a brief Introduction section: including (1) broader rationale for the project and project 
   (2) aims;
* a comprehensive Materials and Methods section: including a 
   (3) detailed textual summary of data and programs used (provide citations to papers and version numbers of programs), 
   (4) URL(s) to your code on GitHub, and 
   (5) git revision(s) of code used;
* a Results section: including a 
   (6) textual summary of results obtained supported by figures or tables (where appropriate), 
   (7) paths to directories on the teaching cluster containing result file(s) generated by your pipeline (e.g. BAM files, VCF files) and 
   (8) URLs to results file(s) on GitHub (e.g. .png/.pdf create by program, summary table created by program);
* a brief Conclusions section: including a 
   (9) critical evaluation of your current pipeline and a statement of what the 
   (10) next steps are to improve/extend your pipeline in the future.
* A Literature Cited section (not included in page limit, any format) containing all cited references must be included at the end of the report.

### Todos for Tomorrow:

- Write Results Section for Term Paper
- Visualize Ampliseq (STALE)
  - examine slurm run 15474870
- Run DESeq2 analysis on htseq-count table (STALE)

### Git Commits

#### Lab notebook

```bash
194db1e - Benjamin Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 09:22:22 2022 -0500 : page for wednesday
ecb6dc8 - Benjamin Lorentz, Tue Nov 29 17:31:24 2022 -0500 : git logs
d321621 - Benjamin Lorentz, Tue Nov 29 17:30:18 2022 -0500 : everything for tues except git logs
```

#### gene8940-term-paper

```bash
76efc48 - Benjamin Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 17:06:59 2022 -0500 : methods section almost complete
2a3e3a6 - Benjamin Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 16:25:14 2022 -0500 : updates to report
c44b554 - Benjamin Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 14:51:39 2022 -0500 : added in two citations, testing push
d3a57dc - Benjamin Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 14:10:15 2022 -0500 : add report file with working title
0a7b5e5 - Benjamin Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 12:05:32 2022 -0500 : update star_result_comparison
6043173 - Benjamin Joseph Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 10:20:23 2022 -0500 : dos2unix
7a53314 - Benjamin Lorentz, Wed Nov 30 10:19:42 2022 -0500 : add looped htseq
8c328fa - Ben Lorentz, Tue Nov 29 20:39:15 2022 -0500 : updated 6
84809fc - Benjamin Lorentz, Tue Nov 29 17:29:55 2022 -0500 : added r code to run DESeq2 and some refrence files
```


